---

title: Better ways to work, European AI conferences and Digital Minimalism

date: 2025-07-20

type: newsletter

year: 2025

week: 29

---
#### DHH: Future of Programming, AI, Ruby on Rails, Productivity & Parenting | Lex Fridman Podcast #474 
> [https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=vagyIcmIGOQ](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=vagyIcmIGOQ)

A friend of recently asked me when I started following DHH and I surprisingly couldn't pinpoint an exact time or moment. It wasn't all that long ago but it doesn't feel like that. By binge-listening to their Rework podcast on my bike rides to and from work I have come to get quite acquainted with the work philosophy at 37signals. It resonates with me a lot. The whole idea of giving people time and opportunity to focus and letting them do their job. It sounds deceptively simple but is increasingly rare in modern workplaces. Recurring meetings, middle-management and large teams are just a few of the topics that are often critiqued.

As I'm starting a PhD very soon I have been thinking about their "manager of one" mentality. Everyone should be their own manager. These people are better off being left on their own and figure things out rather than being told explicitly what to do in minute detail. I like that a lot. 
#### EurIPS: Present NeurIPS papers in Europe
> [https://eurips.cc/](https://eurips.cc/)

Travel to the US is a touchy subject at the moment. There are numerous reports of people being detained for rather dubious reasons. This has spiked an interest in european alternatives. One of which is the possibility to gather for NeurIPS without the necessity to go to the US. I have never been to NeurIPS but hope to experience it along the way over the next three years. To my understanding it is quite normal for PhDs to go to these huge conferences at least once even if they don't have anything to present. It reminds me of Andrej Karpathy's saying that "The real action is in the hallways". The real value is actually just gathering a bunch of people with similar interests.  
#### Digital minimalism
> [https://calnewport.com/on-digital-minimalism/](https://calnewport.com/on-digital-minimalism/)

I have been on vacation for two weeks without any particular plans. It has been nice to take it slow and easy but my phone screen time has been absolutely horrendous. I want a better relationship with technology. It often feels like it controls me rather than the other way around. I have started to doodle and sketch a bit more on my iPad just to get some creative juices flowing and using technology as creative enablement rather than just pure consumption devices. This newsletter also helps. However, I find it hard to jot down thoughts throughout the week and tend to write everything in bulk and push it right after. I would prefer the former approach to make it less intrusive in terms of making time for it.

Cal Newport talks about this relationship to technology in his book *Digital Minimalism* which I borrowed from my local library. Sometimes you just need to get a nudge from a book like that to actually take action and formalize your thoughts around the subject. I haven't finished it yet but I have especially liked his thoughts and anecdotes around taking long walks where you are alone with your thoughts. I have already notices a pattern for myself that I almost get stressed if I haven't found a podcast to listen to on my bike ride to and from work. That feels like a fragile way of being and I don't like it upon reflection. Being comfortable just being alone with your thoughts feels very beneficial to your overall well-being.  