---

title: GPUs for All, Taking Long Walks and Creating More

date: 2025-07-27

type: newsletter

year: 2025

week: 30

---
#### Potential donating hours on GPU cluster
> [https://x.com/ClementDelangue/status/1947379634615816287](https://x.com/ClementDelangue/status/1947379634615816287)

"*Would there be a way for big tech to "donate" the unused hours on their massive GPU clusters to open science and open-source AI developers? Could add up to significant amounts put to good use?*" - @ClementDelangue

Compute is a bottleneck for AI development and compute at scale is expensive. Big Tech is increasingly upping their datacenter investments. Even going so far as to building their own power plants to suffice the necessary energy usage for their ambitions. The gap between research and industrial application of AI development is quite narrow. A paper published today might have serious financial implications for a company if implemented tomorrow. 

Researchers, hobbyists and open source contributors are often limited on funds, and thereby computational resources. I believe that there is a huge potential to have programmes of some kind where certain kinds of AI work done by the aforementioned group of people can be sponsored by corporations. 

This would accelerate science and engineering in the AI space. The unique thing making this possible is that your laptop is your lab. You don't have an explicit need for specific facilities. Just SSH access to a GPU cluster where you can experiment with research or implementation.

It's super cool that someone like Clem, CEO of Hugging Face, opens up this discussion. Hopefully is resonates with enough people to drive change.
#### Walking to work
> [https://taraeast.com/2019/07/24/how-to-your-daily-walk-part-of-your-creative-practice-the-magical-practice-of-productive-meditation/](https://taraeast.com/2019/07/24/how-to-your-daily-walk-part-of-your-creative-practice-the-magical-practice-of-productive-meditation/)

After reading Cal Newports *Digital Minimalism* I was inspired to try one of his recommendations. He made the point that we rarely have prolonged amounts of time just being alone with our thoughts. We have come to a point where we feel a need for constant stimulation. An example from my own life is that I almost panic if I had to bike home but haven't found a podcast for the ride. It usually doesn't feel very good to unlock my bike while frantically scrolling through PocketCast to find *something* that barely crosses my quality/interest threshold. It doesn't feel very robust and if there's something that I have come to believe it is that having a robust mindset is increasingly important. 

Walking to work (about 6.5km, taking 1h15m) has been wonderful. I don't do it every day but just once in a while. There's something about consciously slowing down that is relaxing and a bit freeing. I think that it signals to your brain that you aren't in a rush and that there's very little to actually be concerned about. Maybe that's just my reaction but I would highly suggest giving it a try if your circumstances supports something like it. 

#### Part Time Creator Manifesto 
> [https://www.swyx.io/part-time-creator-manifesto](https://www.swyx.io/part-time-creator-manifesto)

I have come to believe that the value of personal branding makes the associates cringe worth it. However, I'm finding it to be hard to break through that cringe-barrier. Self-doubt and insecurity is something that everyone struggles with. Putting yourself out there is scary but the potential ROI is worth it. Both in terms of opportunities but also personal growth. Chasing personal growth is something I value quite a lot and have benefitted from previously.

This newsletter (if you could call it that, it's more like personal notes) helps me to break through the barrier. Realising that it's practically just an archive of thoughts for myself helps take the pressure off. The audience for actually reading through this is just my future self. However, having a newsletter as a surface-level idea is something marketable and is seen as valuable. 

I hope to increase my cringe tolerance and engage even more with people online as a "part time creator". I will try to force myself to post more on Bluesky, write blog posts, record voice memos or maybe even videos. 

All of this comes from a personal goal of mine to create more. Not anything in particular, just in order to balance out the amount of creation/consumption I'm doing. Creation is currently at a severe deficit and I have come to realise that I actually enjoy creating. Consumption is just so much easier.